EarthMate Userland Library v1.0.2
emul's dependencies are as follows:

libpthread
libusb >= 0.1.8

	The library has moved away from automake and friends.  For your target
install, please link the appropriate makefile.  For example, someone doing
an install with Mac OS X or OpenDarwin should issue the command:
	$ln -s Makefile.darwin Makefile

	To install, please take a look at the Makefile and make sure the
PREFIX variable is set to your liking.  The default is '/usr'.  If this
is acceptable, it should be simple enough to enter the command below
and hit enter:

$ make install

	To see if things are working, there are three programs which
utilize this library.  Those are: emul_test, emul_test2, and sirfmon.
If all goes well, simply replugging the earthmate device and running
emul_test should start spewing NMEA on the terminal.  There is also
the excellent utility 'sirfmon' written mostly by Eric S. Raymond
which can be run with this library via the command:
$ sirfmon emate     (it also works with regular tty devices)

	Both sirfmon and emul_test are installed by default.  emul_test can be passed
the argument d0 - d8 to activate emul library debugging.

	For information regarding the gpsd patch in directory patches,
please view the readme file in that directory.

	Documentation for the library can be found in html/ courtesy of doxygen.
man keywords are 'emul.h' and 'serconfig'.


	If you want to help out, with porting/patches/bug reports/success
stories/etc, please do.  Visit the project page at:
http://developer.berlios.de/projects/emul/



My tests and trials:

		Machines tested with library:
	amd athlon 1500/256MB ddr266/ehci-ohci-uhci
	abit bh6 p3 667/256MB PC133/ali ehci-ohci, uhci bus onboard

2.4 linux kernel notice:

	Host controllers that are usb 2.0 compatible bundled with ohci bridges for
usb 1.1 gave me some trouble.  For instance, trying to read from the interrupt
in pipe will return -22 (or EINVAL) for whichever reason.  This problem does not
seem to exist on the 2.5/2.6 kernels.  A quick and dirty solution is to connect
a usb 1.1 hub on one of the controllers port hubs and then plug the earthmate
into that.  I'm not sure if this is the same for ehci/uhci controllers as
well... I surely hope not.  For people with plain jane usb 1.1 busses there
should be no problem.

RedHat Linux 9.0 (gcc version 3.2.2 20030222 (Red Hat Linux 3.2.2-5) kernel
2.4.20-8)
	Before compiling, I had to change MANDIR to 'MANDIR=$(PREFIX)/share/man'. 
Otherwise it compiled cleanly.  The version of libusb that comes default with
rh9 is 0.1.6, which does not contain the necessary functions for interrupt
transactions.  I had to first package a new rpm of libusb-0.1.10a and then force
it to install using the --force flag.  I also grabbed the latest usbutils and
repacked that as well (for lsusb tool).  On the first run, the system completely
locked up. Apparently when connected to the uhci usb bus the system would oops. 
I then tried upgrading the kernel to something a little more recent from
kernel.org. With 2.4.22/2.4.24/2.4.30 no lockups occured.  sirfmon, both the
version packaged with the library and the one accompanying gpsd, worked well. 
The library utilites, such as emul_test, did not however.  I also ran gpsd-2.21
with success.

Gentoo Linux 2004.3 (gcc 3.4.3 / kernel 2.6.11):
	Compiled without trouble.  It just works, but then again I'm developing emul
on this platform.

Slackware 10.1 (gcc 3.3.4 / kernel 2.4.29):
	Compiled without trouble.  The sirfmon utility works fairly well at rates
below or at 9600bps.  Anything higher will start
choking the emul applications, including gpsd.

OpenDarwin 7.2.1 (gcc 3.3):
	Compiled without trouble.  The only usb controller which seemed to work was
an Ali based ehci/ohci controller, and even then only one of the two ports
worked.  I'm sure someone with ppc hardware could easily have this working. 
When running the test applications, usb_interrupt_read seemed to fail every
time.  Someone running Mac OS X 10.3.8 will most likely have this running
smoothly.

Mac OS X:
	I'm guessing this library will work based on what happened with OpenDarwin. 
Since most if not all macs use ohci host controllers, perhaps the usb 1.1 hub
trick will work as mentioned above.  Someone please send a report.

BSD Folks:
	BSD support is coming along slowly.

NetBSD 2.0 (gcc 3.3.3):
	Compiled without trouble.  In order to avoid using userconf manually on every
boot to disable uhid/uhidev, the uhid interface needs to be disabled in the
kernel by recompiling it.  This is of course very inconvenient for someone with
usb mice, etc.  With userconf, at boot I had to issue the command 'boot -c' in
order to get into the userconf dialog.  Then, to disable the hid interface,
issue the commands: disable 349 and disable 350.  The emul_test program works
fine, however the lines never drop... that is something that should be fixed. 
The em_select() function seems to be at blame for why sirfmon and emul_test2
fail to work properly.

FreeBSD:
	Avoid this library... use the ucycom module instead.  Someone, namely
'brick', has reported the module working fine with the earthmate on FreeBSD
6.0-CURRENT.  The node created by ucycom should be used with gpsd.  If you
however would want to still use this library... who am I to stop you!  Something
to look into for disabling ucycom/uhid without obtaining a migraine would be
this:

http://www.freebsd.org/doc/en_US.ISO8859-1/books/handbook/device-hints.html

Good Luck!
